1. What is Generative AI
	a. Generative AI refers to a class of artificial intelligence models that can create new content — such as text, images, audio, code, or video — that resembles human-created data.
	
	b. LLMs based apps like Chat GPT, Gemini etc..
	
	c. Diffusion Models for Image where you provide a prompt and it generates a model for you.\
	
	d. Code geenration LLMs like CodeLLama
	
	e. TTS (Text-to-Speech) Models like ElevenLabs
	
	f. Video Gen Models like SORA
	
2. Gen AI vs Traditional AI (ML,DL,etc)
	a. Traditional Al is about finding patterns in data and giving	predictions.
	
	b. Generative Al is about learning the distribution of data so that it can generate a new sample from it.
	
	c. The best part of Generative Al is that it can mimic humans.
	
3. Application Areas
	a. Creative and Business Writing
	b. Software Development (Auto Completion Code)
	c. Customer Support
	d. Education
	e. Designing
	
4. LLM Based CHatbot - Goal - To hire a backend engineer!
	a. Creating a JD
	b. Posting the JD to a job platform
	c. Shortlisting
	d. Interviewing
	e. Rolling an offer letter
	f. Onboarding	
	
5. Problems with the above approach:
	a. Reactive - The LLM only responds when user prompts whereas it would be helpful it it is proactive
	b. No memory - User will have to pass the JD as context to LLM all the time for answers as it has no memory
	c. Generic Advice - LLM gives very generic advices but not based on my specific needs on my company's role
	d. Can't take actions - It can't send a mail to the interviewee or post job on job protals
	e. Can't Adapt - It can't strategies to attract more candidates to apply to your job
	
6. To solve the above problems:
	a. Reactive(Autonomous) : Mention the steps it needs to take starting from creating JD to hiring to welcoming candidate [Agentic AI Chatbot]
	b. No Memory : [Agentic AI] + Add Memory
	c. Generic Advice : Add your company data
	d. Can't take actions : Add tools like LinkedIn API, Resume Parser Tool, Mail API, etc. [Tool Augmented Chatbot]
	e. Can't Adapt : [Agentic AI]
	
7. Generative AI is a capability whereas Agentic AI is a behaviour